---
layout: post
title: Mock U.N. Russia Synopsis
date: 2019-11-25 13:50
category: 
author: 
tags: []
summary: 
---
<b>Russia, the 4th largest emitter in the world, is warning 2.5 times faster than the global average, this in turn has resulted in issues with heat waves, forest fires, landslides, and flashfloods. </b>

If we look at their human impact on ecosystem change, that in turn impacts the climate, we can see an abundance of receding permafrost, nuclear accidents that have altered flora and fauna. In addition, the agricultural run-off, and untreated sewage has also led to toxic contamination of major water bodies such as the Black Sea. 
Looking at some of the climate change impacts on people, we have:
-	significant damage to buildings and roads in settlements in parts of Russia currently built on permafrost:
  - 	For the last 10 years, thawing permafrost has increased deformations of buildings in Norilsk by 42%, in Yakutsk - by 61 %, in Anderma - by 90 %.
  - 	In a few decades up to 50% of houses and factory buildings and constructions can be destroyed in part or completely

-	Increased drought would triple poor harvests in Russia straining inter-regional relations.

Looking at the climate change effects on the environment, we have:
-	Non-uniform distribution of precipitation which is causes an increase of an increase in size of underground waters, shifts of climatic zone borders, spread of desertification, more frequent river floods
-	tundra will gradually shrink with noticeable thawing effects in summer: birds loose up to 50% in nesting places, destroys food chain 
-	Outbursts of forest diseases are expected in northern taiga 

<b>Russia is experiences economic and environmental damage by forest fires and nuclear leakage, but will not resort to trying other renewable energy sources such as wind power due to “worms being uplifted by the ground”. 
</b>

Russia, contributing to 17.4% of the worlds global emissions are largely due to GHG emissions are usually made on the basis of forecasts of CO2 emissions caused by fossil fuel combustion since their share in overall national emissions is more than 80%.  Leaks from the fossil fuel extraction and distribution account for around 4 % of global greenhouse gas emissions.

Looking at Russia’s key facts about its geography and political climate related issues in the past:
-	The most well-known feature of the Russian climate is its very cold winter, brought about by the country’s high latitudes (40-75°N), vast land mass and lack of any topographic obstructions to protect it from arctic winds sweeping across its long, north-facing and often frozen coastline.
-	The average annual temperature in European Russia currently rises at a rate of 0.4-0.5 °C every 10 years 
-	The government has been against signing the Paris agreement until this year. 
-	Putin does not believe that climate change is anthropogenic 

Looking at their temperature increase:
-	 In some regions of Russia, in particular in Siberia, the acceleration rate of annual-mean temperature is more than 4 times higher than that of the global temperature.
-	The western Russia heat wave in 2010 led to severe socioeconomic impacts and was likely the 
-	hottest summer in the last 500 years in eastern Europe/ western Russia
-	Looking at the 2010 heat wave, the dry soil moisture alone has increased the risk of a severe heat wave in western Russia six fold
-	Irkutsk region now: a massive fire, hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest are burning, and a terrible flood.
-	Record breaking wildfires in Siberia 
-	Russia faces tens of millions of dollars in infrastructure damage from thawing permafrost soil as well as the potential release of ancient diseases and nuclear weapons testing fallout. 

<b>Russia pledged to reduce emissions to 25 to 30 per cent below 1990 levels by 2030. </b>

-	Russia is the world’s fourth largest emitter, and recently joined the Paris agreement. Has decreased their emissions from 1990 by almost half. 
-	This represent 41 billion tons of CO2 equivalent which on the planetary scale has allowed to cumulatively hold global warming for an entire year. 
-	Russia has the major boreal forest which provides a lot of carbon sink. Industry lobbyists are very strongly going against their pledges to do something about emissions so Putin has instead decided to agree upon the government accord. 
-	The pledges are still notoriously weak 
-	The government statement said ratification of the Paris Agreement “could give Russia additional opportunities to participate in all negotiation processes and protect its interests in international fora that define the rules for reducing CO2 emissions and develop relevant documents
-	The world’s electric power industry is becoming less carbon-intensive, and this predetermines the competitive advantage of goods produced in countries with greener energy
-	Putin is seeing the effects of climate change in Russia as acknowledges in as a problem
-	More nuclear energy, less windmills and such 
-	 Currently under debate in Russia’s upper chamber, the legislation would give the government powers to introduce greenhouse gas emission targets for companies and charges for those that exceed them, with proceeds potentially going into a fund to support carbon-cutting projects. It also lays the groundwork for a cap and trade system, emissions permit and tax breaks for companies reducing or capturing their emissions.
-	As part of a national programme to reduce hazardous pollutants and restore forests, Moscow would now have to take into account the international goals of limiting greenhouse gases
-	Russia pledged to reduce emissions to 25 to 30 per cent below 1990 levels by 2030
-	But this is little more than a sleight of hand, since Russian industry today is still running at a far slower clip than it was before the collapse of the Soviet command economy. As of 2017, Russia's emissions were 32 per cent lower than in 1990. Thus it can actually pollute more and still meet its current Paris agreement goals.
-	As the second-largest oil exporter, Russia contributes to the burning of greenhouse gases around the world and is continuing to develop its oil, gas and coal industries. 
-	Arctic port of Murmansk, which is planned to include 57 wind turbines by 2021. But the country is still well behind a 2009 energy strategy goal to generate 4.5 per cent of power from alternative energy by 2020. 



Sauer, N. (2019, July 10). Russia to ratify Paris Agreement; Putin says wind power 'shakes worms from ground'. Retrieved from https://www.climatechangenews.com/2019/07/09/russia-ratify-paris-agreement-putin-says-wind-power-shakes-worms-ground/.

Sauer, N. (2019, October 25). Russia formally joins Paris climate agreement. Retrieved from https://www.climatechangenews.com/2019/09/23/russia-formally-joins-paris-climate-agreement/.

II Глобальный саммит по производству и индустриализации. (2019, July 9). Retrieved from http://kremlin.ru/events/president/news/60961.

Luhn, A. (2019, August 1). Russia engineers climate to induce rain as wildfires rage across Siberia. Retrieved from https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2019/08/01/russia-engineers-climate-induce-rain-wildfires-rage-across-siberia/.





