---
layout: post
title: Mock United Nations Climate Change Negotiation Reflection

date: 2019-11-25 13:49
category: 
author: 
tags: []
summary: 
---
<br> 
<br>On October 29th, my Climate Change and Society class conducted a mock United Nation Climate Change negotiation between different countries and organizations. We were divided by developed nations, and levels of developing nations, in addition to organizations both for and against climate change action. Some of these organizations include the World Wildlife Fund, and Exxonmobil. These organizations would hop to each cluster of countries in order to lobby for their stance on climate change action, and to cut deals with certain countries regarding emissions. As a mock representative from Russia, I was grouped with other developed nations such as the United States, the United Kingdom throughout the duration of the activity. Together, we have to come up with various action items to curb emissions that brings us to an emissions rate well below 2 degrees celsius of pre-industrial levels. 
<br><br>
Our negotiation was divided up into multiple parts. These parts included emissions rate reduction, stabilization wedges, and deforestation. For this blog, I will focus mainly on our negotiation for emissions rate reduction. For this part, we looked at how each group of countries/organizations would peak in their carbon emissions, and when they would start decreasing their emissions. As the group of developed nations with well established infrastructure designed around carbon emitting sources of energy, we decided that we would peak in our emissions rate in the year 2020, and we would start decreasing the rate of emissions by the year 2030. Knowing that the United States, Europe, and Russia are investing a lot into new types of energy sources such as renewables and nuclear power, it was reasonable to stop increasing the rate of emissions by 2020. Especially for Russia, who’s carbon emissions is greatly contributed by illegal logging and deforestation, putting strict sanctions on these illegal activities can greatly reduce emissions. In addition, Russia’s recent ratification of the Paris agreement, and the government's active investments to nuclear power, makes the feasibility of these goals are a lot more likely. Russian ambassadors themselves have set their goal to reduce the rate by 2020. We also settled on decreasing the rate of emissions by 2030 due to the fact that restructuring infrature that took decades to build can be very hard, especially for the countries whose economy relies on oil and gas the most such as the United States and Russia. Therefore, we settled on a 10 year plateau in emissions rate. After each group of countries imputed their targets into the emissions reduction calculator, we were still above our ideal amount. As a result,  other developing nations were trying to cut deals with us to start decreasing the rate of emissions earlier than 2030, however we did not budge. For the remainder of the exercises, we as a group of developed nations had very proactive deals. We were going to prioritize aforestation and reduce deforestation, in addition to providing a lot of aid to developing nations for them to implement sustainability projects. As Russia, it was a lot easier to uphold relatively radical carbon curbing initiatives due to Putin’s recent push for such changes for sustainable infrastructure within Russia itself. 
<br> <br>
Overall, we were a little short of reaching our goal of cutting carbon emissions well below 2.0 degrees celsius, however we made it very close with 2.1 degrees. The experience was a lot more amicable than I thought. I think it was partly due to the developed nation’s willingness to contribute significant amounts in terms of funding to other countries, which led to their carbon curbing initiatives to be pretty significant overall. If given more time, I’m sure the parties involved could have done further negotiations to reduce our emissions by another 0.1 degrees necessary to reach our goal of 2.0 degrees celsius. 

